before we can start generating textures procedurally.
It is crucial to understand how the actual information of colours,
values and vectors that we are working with
is represented and displayed on screen.
We need to be able to interpret what we see correctly
and that can have some pitfalls
to create a color and put in the shader editor.
It can simply go to the input category and grab an RgB node
where you can simply pick a color
as you are probably used to from blender and other software
and if I just connect this to of your note,
you can see that the color is directly displayed in the material preview.
It is important to understand that a color is made up of three individual
values where what the values represent depends
on the color model that you're using,
how we pick a color with a color wheel like this is based on the HSV color model,
you can pick the hue of color like this,
the situation along the radius here
and the value or brightness along this axis.
What is usually more useful when working with Schrader's is
using the RGB color model which creates the same colors.
Just the three values represent something else.
RGB stands for red, green and blue
and it is also quite intuitive how the values control the color.
The color wheel is a nice and intuitive way to pick a color
but if you want to have more capabilities and precision,
you can also use a combined RgB node
from the converted category
and there.
You have just these three individual value controls for R,
G and B and additionally you can see that here.
Those also have sockets.
This means that you can drive the
channels individually with values from other notes.
As you can see the values that we can choose
by sliding here are locked to a range from 0-1,
but we can also punch in values beyond that.
For example, I can take a value input and connected with the combined RGB note,
let's just take the same value for all channels
and as you can see,
the result is some shade of gray
with the brightness depending on the value.
But if I now put this value to one
and drag the slider higher,
you can see that the brightness still changes.
It is actually brighter on 10
than it is on one.
Which does not really make sense when you're thinking back to the color picker
Where the maximum value of one for RG&B
results in pure white.
The reason there is a difference in the
display is the color management at this point.
It would be easy to get lost in the intricacies of color
theory which is not my point to make in this course.
Just know that how color looks depends mainly
on your display device and is also highly subjective
but for procedural shedding it is useful to have an
intuitive translation between the cars you're working with for the shader
and the colors that you are seeing on
screen to get objective values for comparing colors,
I can just render out a shot of the surface with the viewer node as the shader output.
When I now right click on the image,
you can see a number of values showing up at the bottom of the window.
These are an analytical breakdown of the pixel I'm currently selecting
that gives you some useful information.
The values you can see here are the X and y position,
distance of the camera
and then we have some RGB values
and these are matching the RGB values that we choose before
.5 for every channel
but these are not the values that are actually displayed.
There is still a transformation going on
the following values of the analytics. After color management is applied
RGB
HSV
and the luminosity
which will play a role later.
And as you can see there is a clear deviation
to adjust how the display of colors is handled within blender.
You can go to the color management settings in the rendered properties. Tab
by default, that is plenty of ice is set to S RGb and the view transform to filmic.
These settings give you the most natural look of colours
and I definitely recommend you use it for all your final renderings
but when you want information about actual values,
it can look quite misleading
to get the colors straight without any transformation,
you can turn the display device to none
but do this only temporarily for debugging values and not for actual rendering.
As you can see now.
The analytical values of the color management also fit the ones we selected before
at this point it is important to mention that the color
management settings only influenced the look of how colors are is played
and not the actual values that the render engine is working with.
It is important to understand is all that matters for
calculations in the shade of editor are the actual values.
The look can still be changed after rendering
but it is not necessary to mess with the colour management at all
to have an idea of values and colors.
You can just get used to the settings you're using for rendering
but it is good to know about the option.
In fact keeping the setting on filming.
S RGB is a nice way to cheat and see changes beyond the value of one
but maybe you have already realized that procedural textures like the
noise texture or plain values look different than you would expect.
That is not an illusion but a side effect of the economy management.
So switching off the color management
might give you more neutral insight.
Now let's take a look at how values are displayed when
we try to display a value with of your note,
it needs to be converted into a color.
This conversion is very straightforward and you can
actually see on screen right now the same
value is just use for all three RGB channels which results in a gray tone.
So if I delete this combined RGB note and
connect the value directly with of your note,
it shows the exact same result.
So generally that means that zero shows black,
one shows white
and everything in between is some gradual shade of gray.
Keep in mind that this depends on your color management settings
but values don't have to be between zero and one
and this is where the major downside of displaying values as colours comes in,
all negative values are cut off to black
and all values above one are eventually cut off to white.
The additional information is lost on screen.
So keep in mind that just because the value is displayed as black,
it does not mean that the value is zero,
it might just as well be negative the other way around.
When a color is converted into a value,
The three color channels have to be reduced into one.
And it is interesting to note that the calculated
value here is the luminosity of the color,
which is not to be mistaken for the value from the HSV color model.
The luminosity or relative luminescence is a
measure for the perceived brightness of color
and it is calculated as a weighted average of R G and B.
It becomes clear when you look at pure red,
green and blue that one does not seem as bright as the other
and that is what the luminosity takes into account.
If I add a math note to force the conversion to a value,
I'll just add zero.
You can clearly see that they are in fact convert into different values.
So if you find yourself in a situation where you have to choose a colour for a value,
don't go for the HSV value but rather choose the same value for all RGB channels,
confusing luminosity and HSV value is a very common mistake
at last. Let's talk about the factories.
You can simply think of a vector as a container of multiple separate values.
In the case of blenders shading system,
A victory always has three dimensions
X, Y and zed.
Because of that.
A vector is commonly interpreted either as a position in
three dimensional space or a direction with a length.
But fundamentally the components of a vector can represent anything and you
don't have to think of it as some type of complex mathematical object
to create a vector in the shader editor,
you can add a combined X y z note
and that works completely in parallel to the combined Rgb known for colors.
The only difference is that the sliders of the combined X Y Z node
are not clamped between zero and one,
which makes sense as the components of vectors can have any value.
Generally vectors and colours in the shade of editor are
interchangeable and there is no conversion needed when it's played.
The X, Y Z values are just used as the RgB values of the color.
That means of course that negative factors can only be displayed as black
and just as with the display of values,
a vector that is displayed black does not have to be zero,
so mostly in the shade of editor, vectors and RgB colors are handled in the same way,
but there's one subtle difference in how they are converted into values.
Remember that I said that cars are reduced into values by the use
of the relative luminescence which is a weighted average of the color channels.
That is not the case for the conversion of a vector to a single value.
There are three channels don't have a different importance and
the value used is simply the average of x,
Y and Z.
It might not be very intuitive to think of a vector as a color.
That's why I made a simple demonstration file that should illustrate it further.
You can choose a vector as an arrow by shifting its source
and target
and it is colored accordingly.
And as you would expect when I shift the target along the Z axis,
the arrow gets more and more blue.
Same thing for the X and the Y axis with the red and green.
If you change the scene,
you can also see similar demonstrations for RgB colors and values.
So if you want to get more familiar
with how Corus values and victories are displayed,
I recommend you play around with this file a little bit.